ATTRIBUTIONS AND LICENSES

Unless otherwise noted below, this software is in the public domain because it contains 
materials that originally came from the United States Geological Survey, an agency of the 
United States Department of Interior. For more information, see the official USGS 
copyright policy at: http://www.usgs.gov/visual-id/credit_usgs.html#copyright

Software and related material (data and (or) documentation), contained in or furnished in 
connection with a software distribution, are made available by the U.S. Geological Survey 
(USGS) to be used in the public interest and in the advancement of science. You may, 
without any fee or cost, use, copy, modify, or distribute this software, and any 
derivative works thereof, and its supporting documentation, subject to the following 
restrictions and understandings.

If you distribute copies or modifications of the software and related material, make sure 
the recipients receive a copy of this notice and receive or can get a copy of the 
original distribution. If the software and (or) related material are modified and 
distributed, it must be made clear that the recipients do not have the original and they 
must be informed of the extent of the modifications. For example, modified files must 
include a prominent notice stating the modifications made, the author of the 
modifications, and the date the modifications were made. This restriction is necessary to 
guard against problems introduced in the software by others, reflecting negatively on the 
reputation of the USGS.

The software is public property and you therefore have the right to the source code, if 
desired.

You may charge fees for distribution, warranties, and services provided in connection 
with the software or derivative works thereof. The name USGS can be used in any 
advertising or publicity to endorse or promote any products or commercial entity using 
this software if specific written permission is obtained from the USGS.

The user agrees to appropriately acknowledge the authors and the USGS in publications 
that result from the use of this software or in products that include this software in 
whole or in part.

Because the software and related material are free (other than nominal materials and 
handling fees) and provided "as is," the authors, the USGS, and the United States 
Government have made no warranty, express or implied, as to accuracy or completeness and 
are not obligated to provide the user with any support, consulting, training or 
assistance of any kind with regard to the use, operation, and performance of this 
software nor to provide the user with any updates, revisions, new versions or "bug fixes".

The user assumes all risk for any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data, or 
profits arising in connection with the access, use, quality, or performance of this 
software.

This code is PROVISIONAL and SUBJECT TO REVISION.

These files contain no Personally Identifiable Information (PII).

The sample datasets are either created as arbitrary test data, or are sourced from other 
USGS reports, which are also in the public domain and referenced in the metadata.

CODE DEPENDENCIES

This code does require ArcGIS Desktop 10.0 or later to be installed to operate.
(References to or use of non-U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI) products does not 
constitute an endorsement by the DOI.)
